---
title: Competitive Landscape
description: The goal is a trusted destination for data for all users. The greatest competitive advantage is loyal users.
author: Mike Audi
category: company
---
> A classic investor question is, what is your competitive differentiation?

These days, it's particularly poignant. User awareness finally hit a point where the levee broke. There's a mad dash
into the market of user data, and with any new, giant market opportunity, there are all sorts of ideas, offerings, and
behaviors—real, fake/scams, good, and concerning.

If we focus on those with real progress, there are three types of competitors in the user data space.

---

Companies like [Fetch Rewards](https://www.fetchrewards.com) & [Killi](https://killi.io) are "get paid for your data"
types. They're essentially pursuing becoming a new age version of the big user market research companies we all know
like Nielson except with the spin where users get some compensation. A common example is Killi's feature of "take a
photo of your phone bill and get paid $5".

Companies like [Jumbo](https://www.jumboprivacy.com) & [The @ Company](https://atsign.com) are building apps for
privacy-focused users. These are generally targeted towards a much techier audience, similar to the user base of VPN
apps. They offer various features like making it easier to file a GDPR request, get data breach notifications, or get a
detailed breakdown on your data.

Companies like [Streamr](https://streamr.network) & [Inrupt](https://inrupt.com) are focused on building new core tech,
like networks, protocols, and standards, to address the issues with user data. These systems require buy-in from
companies and often users.

### TIKI's approach is quite different.

Before we did anything, before even incorporating the company, we decided on 3 values—**User-centric, transparency,
trust**. The goal is a trusted destination for data for all users. The way to build trust in a trustless world is to 1)
don't hide anything. Everything we do is transparent & public, our code, our designs, our plans, our vision, you name
it. It's on our blog. 2) User-centric always. When the hard decisions inevitably come, always pick the user-centric
answer.

**The greatest competitive advantage is loyal users.** This is why we open-sourced our code, even against traditional
thinking. Building user trust is more important. This is why, early on, we focused on building an active community with
over 1100 discord members & 850 telegram members. To be user-centric, you must be in it with the users.

Finally, we build technology not for the techies or those who can afford privacy but for everyone. **Everyone in the
world deserves the right to choose what happens to their data**. We are quite firmly "not tech" and aren't afraid to do
things differently (our app is goofy with dancing pineapples); it's the main reason for raising crowdfunded capital as
opposed to traditional venture capital. Data is a universal problem; we're building a solution for users. 
